---
layout: post
title: First Week of Research & Development
---

Yesterday ended my first week at my new job. I am currently working at Rochester Institute of Technology as a researcher & developer of the pedagogical sort. I am working under PhD. David Schwartz to research the best ways to teach the modelling of physical concepts through simulation, then I must develop concise and correct standalone examples demonstrating the modelling of the concept. During this development I must be very meticulous in documenting my program, not simply for the longevity of the code or the ease of following the logic, but to explain the mathematical and physics formulas, derivations, and (sometimes) proofs which allow us to model the concept in the way I am presenting. My work is to be distributed to my fellow students (and eventually (hopefully) the world) as a learning resource. For anybody interested, it is licensed under GPL and I will be working in my spare time on putting together a github repo to help with distribution.

I love my job. It is exactly what I want to be doing right now. I can turn my T-Swift up to 11 and write physics simulations all day! I learn so much researching the different ways of implementing a certain concept, I have uncovered a wealth of resources to help me develop simulations in future positions I may hold, and the working conditions are amazing. I have an unofficial desk in the Center for Advancing the Study of Cyber-Infrastructure in a room which contains 4 whiteboards. My desk has an alienware box under it sporting dual moniters with enough more than enough space to have my laptop up and running aswell. Dave lets me and my co-worker do our thing, create our own hours (within some reason), and have a lot of say over the direction of the project. Finally, because I want to become a professor later on in life, developing projects which fall right into my realm of interest as an educational resource for my friends and fellow students is basically a dream!

However, I decided I also wanted to take two classes while I was working this summer-- that may have been a mistake. After this week I'm realizing how much work I signed up for. Before homework and addressing my basic human needs such as eating, cleaning, and sleeping I'm working 10.5 hour days. If you factor in the time it takes to cook a meal, eat it, and clean the dishes used It's probably 11.5 - 12 hours. Then homework (and later projects) from two classes brings it to about 14-16 hours. Add another half for a daily shower. Then one of those classes gives two quizzes a week, so depending on the day thats another hour! My work & studies have finally completely consumed my life and it is exhausting. As exhausting as it is though, I do really enjoy what I do. I love to learn, program, math, and simulate. Even though I'm working my fingers to the bone I don't think I'd have it any other way.

I just wish I had more time to work on this website and my [NGen](https://github.com/MrNex/NGen).
