---
layout: post
title: We're Back
---

I have returned from a long and uncalled for break. I'm hoping the second time around I will get into the habit of keeping this website updated with my latest endeavours- and here to help me do that are two new classes!

Since my last post my knee has healed, I have finished an amazing coop at GE Aviation, I have acquired a full time job, and I have learned *so* much. I have now returned to Rochester Institute of Technology for my final semester until I graduate with my BS in Game Design & Development. As apart of this semester, I am taking CSCI-711 Global Illumination, and IGME-470 Physical Computing and Alternative Interfaces. For both of these courses I am required to submit blog posts outlining my progress on two separate projects. It should be noted that I will now prepend any posts related to those courses with the course number stated above.

CSCI-711 Global Illumination, what's that about huh? Well it's this awesome course that teaches advanced computer graphics techniques to work towards more physically based rendering. This course takes the approach of teaching computer graphics by studying and modelling actual photography, cameras, and properties of light. Throughout the course I will be creating a ray tracer as well as developing a project which I will type more about soon!

IGME-470 Physical Computing & Alternative Interfaces, sounds interesting? Well it is! This course is all about bridging the gap between the digital and physical worlds through the use of microcontrollers and electronics components! The class uses arduinos to develop many different forms of physically interactive digital media. I am using this class as a way to learn embedded programming. I have asked my (awesome) professor if I could use PIC microcontrollers instead of an arduino or other preassembled prototyping board and she said yes! So I have been working with a PIC16F1829 with a PICkit3. I think soon I am going to pick up a few more chips and choose a simple straightforward one to work with this semester. The past few hours I have been struggling with Analog - Digital conversions, but I will get it!

In case you couldn't tell I am extremely excited for these two classes. My semester is going to be my most busy yet- but I think I will also learn more than ever before. With 2 graduate level and 3 undergraduate courses my time will definitely be spread thin- and I'll love every second of it.

Until Nex time!
~ Mr. Nex
